attributeName	attributeDefinition	class	unit	dateTimeFormatString	missingValueCode	missingValueCodeExplanation
Master Sorting No	Sequentially ordered records for the purposes of data loading or other grouping.	numeric	dimensionless	NA	-999	Missing value
Method	The method/protocol that describes the survey/program, which is typically a detailed document explaining exactly how to collect or analyze the data.	character	NA	NA	-999	Missing value
Year Site XS Identifier	A conjugate of ""SURVEY YEAR"", ""SITE NO"", and if applicable, ""<DECIMAL>"" and ""OTHER NUMBER OR TEXT (SUCH AS CROSS SECTION NUMBER OR ""ALL"")"", ie for LTAM, 20062.1 refers to Sample Year 2006, Site 2, and Cross Section 1; and 200621 refers to Sample Year 2006 and Site Number 21. Note that if the site does not have other number or text to append, the value will equal ""YEAR SITE IDENTIFIER"".	character	NA	NA	-999	Missing value
Year Site Identifier	A conjugate of ""YEAR OF DATA COLLECTION"" and ""SITE NO"". Note that other number or cross section number is not included, ie. 200621 refers to Sample Year 2006 and Site Number 21.	numeric	dimensionless	NA	-999	Missing value
User Name	The user name as downloaded from Pendragon Forms or other electronic form. Also, ""999"" refers to not applicable; and ""-999"" refers to data that is required but is missing.	character	NA	NA	-999	Missing value
Timestamp	Date or Date and Time for when the data was collected. Loaded as text due to SIMS displaying Timestamps as numbers and not dates. Has no affect on export; exported as general and not text.	Date	NA	MM/DD/YYYY hh:mm:ss	-999	Missing value
Site No	Numerical value that has been assigned to the site, whereas the same site number is used for repeat surveys.	numeric	dimensionless	NA	-999	Missing value
Stream Name (short)	Give the abbreviated/shortened stream name of the site that is being surveyed (ie for Rock Creek it would be ""Rock""; and for North Fork Cedar River, it would be ""NFC"").	character	NA	NA	-999	Missing value
Observers	The names or initials of each person who participated in the survey.	character	NA	NA	-999	Missing value
Cross Section No	A number that identifies the cross section, whereas the cross sections are typically (but not always) numbered sequentially starting from the most downstream end of the site.	numeric	dimensionless	NA	-999	Missing value
Channel Type for Pebble Count	A description of number and types of channels present at the pebble count location, ie. “main ch”, “side ch”, “other”, etc.Also, ""999"" refers to not applicable; and ""-999"" refers to data that is required but is missing.	character	NA	NA	-999	Missing value
No. of Particles Per Record	The number of particles per record counted for a particular cross section or location. There might be more than one record per cross section if the data was collected on different days or if there were two recorders.	numeric	dimensionless	NA	-999	Missing value
Comments	Free form text for interesting or unusual sightings, problems, or issues.	character	NA	NA	-999	Missing value
Pebble B-Axis Length (mm)	The b-axis (medium axis) of the sediment particle to the nearest mm using a see-through ruler.  Make sure the markings on the ruler have not rubbed off and are very clear (if a ruler is kept in the backpack all field season some of the markings will have rubbed off by the end of the field season).  For measurements < 2 mm record ""1"".  Do not assume a particle is < 2 mm without measuring it first.  Each axis (a, b, and c) are perpendicular to each other.  It is usually easiest to find the c-axis (long axis) then work in a perpendicular fashion to find the a-axis (short axis) and finally the b-axis.  Sometimes two axes are very similar which will require measuring both axes to determine which one is the b-axis.  Choose each particle in a systematic and random fashion for the entire transect (usually a blind touch with the forefinger off the tip of your boot).  The pace must be consistent for the entire transect although pace can be different between transects.  A transect must be finished regardless if the desired goal is met mid-transect.	numeric	millimeter	NA	-999	Missing value
